I think I'm going to talk here.
Yeah, I hope you guys don't mind the Twitter aspect
.
This is all obviously very translatable to Blue Sky.
Yeah, my talk's about, as you can see,
digital anthropology.
I'm going to tell you a story.
I had fun writing last night.
OK, my name is Francisco.
I have some background in AI safety and tools for thought.
I've worked at Meter and the U Commission.
And I run my own small R&D org called Ep
istemic Garden.
And we build AI tools for community flourishing.
Epistemic Garden.
OK, so I spend a lot of time on Twitter.
There's this part of Twitter that I love.
And you could describe them as intellectual hippies.
I think of them as pre-paradigmatic research
scene online.
And these are people with varied interests, all of mine.
There have been potentially many waves.
This is how you can think of them.
But the anthropology has always been done manually in pictures like this
one.
I want to make the argument that it
's a generative scene that ends up being very influential.
You know the motto of the conference?
I'm pretty-- I'm relatively confident that my friends came
up with it way back when.
The Department of War-- I know it's not a great
slide.
But again, I'm making the argument that, mimetically
, this group of people is kind of upstream of a lot
of stuff.
OK, so I love these people.
I love this space online.
And I wanted to understand what makes it tick, what makes
it work.
And I wanted to make it go even faster.
But Twitter is closed.
Oh, no.
So I started something called the Community Archive.
Because if I moved to Blue Sky-- I love Blue Sky
.
But if I moved to Blue Sky, my people wouldn't
be there.
So I started this thing, and I got a few hundred
people to upload their archives.
You need to download them from Twitter.
And it's a whole laborious process.
But ultimately, we end up with a really nice data set
to run experiments and build prototypes.
You have a few influential people.
In the top follows.
Patio is like an ex-stripe person who
's a famous blogger.
Emmett Scheer was CEO of OpenAI for like a
second.
And people did build all sorts of tools and prototypes.
These are a few that I gathered.
But you have like a Google Trends type thing.
Someone did like an idea, like viral spread of ideas thing
.
I have a banger bot over there.
Someone did people search on the archive.
Many tools.
But the tools don't answer my questions.
I wanted to understand the stories and the flow of ideas in
this community.
So I tried semantic clustering first.
You embed all the tweets.
You try to cluster them.
And you get groups of tweets that are a little bit too
broad.
So an example is you might end up with a cluster of
just broadly meditation-y themed things.
But I want stories.
I want threads of narrative that are much more specific than that
.
And I examined the meditation cluster.
And found one really cool story.
I think some Vietnamese Dharma person has the saying
, like, the next Buddha is a Sangha.
And over time, people kind of remixed this and all
the Dharma-oriented people made them, yeah, you know
, like, the next Buddha is an internet community.
And that's a story that you can tell, that I
found in the data.
But semantic clustering didn't work that well to do it
in an automated, exhaustive way, right?
So I tried to find strands, which worked better.
So I'm going to tell you a little bit about strands
.
They worked better.
We took this tweet about community building, the original one,
and we found tweets causally downstream of it and tweets top
ically upstream of it.
Like I was saying, strands are centered on one tweet,
like causal light cones, downstream, upstream, backwards and forwards
in time.
This is my working diagram, but it's what it says
on the tin.
And, oh yeah, I guess I could explain.
It's like, you have a tweet, it gets quoted
a bunch of times in the future, or it gets replied
to, and all of those are kind of causally upstream
, right?
And you could implement the causally upstream in many ways.
In my case, I just did semantic similarity, and it
's close enough.
We still get pretty cool results.
Oh yeah, I forgot I had slides explaining exactly this.
Quotes enriching with semantic search.
And then you get all the threads from the quotes and the
replies and so on.
And you end up with something that's kind of shaped like
this.
I analyzed a bunch of them manually just to make sure that
the quality was right.
Then I kind of automated them and got 250 of them.
But what tweets do we base the strands on?
Well, bangers, of course.
Bangers are tweets with lots of quote tweets over time from
the same community.
That kind of implies that they're good enough to cite over
and over and use as building blocks in the future when making
arguments.
Works pretty well.
These are some of the bangers.
If you're familiar with the community, you'll recognize these
as pretty canonical tweets that end up being referenced over and over
.
We found 250 of them.
This is kind of a little semantic atlas of the strands
that we found.
And you can ask, can you braid the strands together?
Can we make a full picture?
Can we make a fuller map?
I tried getting plot code to make sense of them because there
's 250 of those.
As visual support, this is the chaos of the data set
and these are the individual strands and this is what I'm
hoping for.
It's not perfect, but it's a start.
It works fine.
It still requires a lot of human care.
I wouldn't trust it.
I wouldn't present the results without having already a tacit
knowledge of having been on Twitter for this long.
But I think we can get there.
So what can we say about the big history of the scene
?
Well, these are walls of text, so I won't
bore you.
But the TLDR is there's this guy, Visa,
who figures out a bunch of really good posting norms that people
end up adopting over time.
During COVID, lots of kind of rationalist-y,
dharma-y flavored people join Twitter.
They find Visa's posting norms and it creates this kind of
really generative intellectual scene where people who are previously pretty rational
ist-minded, pretty left brain, end up discovering all
of these spiritual traditions and therapy modalities and embodied practices.
And that was kind of the golden age, but things keep
going.
This is just like the kind of the implications of that big
left brain, right brain merge.
And kind of the era that we've been in for the
past couple of years, I guess, is characterized by community
building in real life and data infrastructure, like the Community Arch
ive.
So we just found a bunch of stories.
We have cloth code stitched them together.
I have a personal theory of the scene.
I don't think we're going to go through it very
, very, very in depth.
I will just say that I think the core loop of what
's happening here is people who are high in epistemic
rigor, you know, like have the tools of rationality
, like Bayesian thinking and so on and systems thinking,
look at these old traditions and kind of try them out and
explain them in rationalist terms, and that makes them more
accessible to new people who are kind of like more left brain
emphasis.
Having access to these practices, they end up, you know
, having more nervous system capacity and executive function, which lets
them relate to people that are doing, do more projects that
has an outgrowth of community and friendship and flourishing and
is all supported by, by, by technical infrastructure like Twitter
, Blue Sky and tools that people may build on top.
This is with overwhelming icons added I don't think it's
worth looking at.
There's still work to do.
There are a few key events that I pre-register
ed that I thought I would be able to find in the
data that I was not.
And that's fine.
For example, the first time the community met in person,
there was this thing called VibeCamp.
But Brook, the founder, isn't in the community archive
.
So we couldn't really, like, find the strand exactly
for that.
In the same way, jhanas, which are kind
of meditation practice that became really big recently.
But the main people aren't there.
So it was hard to find, like, the strands that
did exactly that.
And then FractalNYC is an in-person
community where the people are, in fact, present, but
we still, you know, for one reason or another,
didn't find a great strand.
So, bless you.
If the data-- yeah, OK.
Obviously, if we have complete data, this wouldn't be
a problem.
But the people I care about are still on Twitter, right
?
And we were talking about this on the panel just earlier.
It's kind of a socio-technical problem.
Maybe we need to throw a better party, even though the
house is really nice.
Exactly.
Yeah, so what's next for me?
I'm building tools for community flourishing to, you know
, get 100x more serendipity if we can
.
Right now, like, the next thing I'm doing is
kind of like a P2P network of permission data between
people and to get-- to find opportunities between us, right
?
Like, Ronan's agent talks to my agent.
Maybe I know someone who wants to fund Ronan.
Maybe I'm trying to get rid of a couch and Ron
an needs a couch.
And the goal is to have this, you know, big
ecosystem of AI fairies conspiring in your favor.
This is where the fairies live.
Yeah, this is Epistemic Garden.
I'm Francisco.
You can find me on Substack.
I publish lab notes fairly regularly with my work.
And thank you.
Thank you, guys, for paying attention.
Thanks, Francisco.
You're welcome.
Any questions?
That's a lot of information.
This was really fun.
What do you-- you talked a little bit about limitations,
but like, yeah, what do you wish you could build
that you feel like you can't build?
Or where are you limited?
Like, you were saying there were some, like, events
you were expecting to see that you didn't see, but
are there, like, bigger things you're like, I
wish I could have this, but I don't have it
yet.
I think definitely just the amount of data is one, right
, just being comprehensive across all the people that might
matter.
Another is permission data, where, for the opportunity mining that
I was talking about, you know, I don't want
to be public about everything, but for people I meet once
or twice at a conference or friends of friends, I wouldn
't mind.
There's a lot of information that would make it easy to
coordinate with other people that I wouldn't be able to post
onto it.
I just got to say, I feel like the whole day
if I had to summarize it in, like, one sentence
that I learned is that blue sky is a nice house,
but it needs to throw a better party.
And I think, yeah, you can teach us how to
throw good parties.
Like, this is cool stuff.
Thanks.
Yeah, so we should jam on it.
Any other questions?
You talked sort of briefly about, like, assembling threads from
, like, posts.
I was wondering if you could, like, elaborate a bit
more on that process.
I felt like it was kind of unclear to me how you
take one post and turn it into this whole, you know
, how do you find, like, posts that form some
sort of story?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I think the core insight-- I think the core insight
is that, first, we pick the central posts well,
because they're posts that are very likely to have mattered.
And they have lots of quote tweets.
They're cited lots of times, right?
And then the actual way we build the strands is-- so
you get the post.
Then you take all the times it was quoted, all the
posts that quote the original one.
Right?
Then we take all of those.
We do semantic search on them and find, you know,
the 50, if you want, you know, most sem
antically similar posts, so that we have some chance of getting
past posts, posts from the past.
Because otherwise, it would be all in the future.
Then for each of those, we get all their threads,
right?
Like, all the reply trees.
And that gives us something that looks kind of like this.
And did I-- at first, when you asked your question
, I thought you were asking about how to stitch the strands
together.
But was that not the question?
Yeah.
So this-- Maybe we can also do that part offline if
we're-- because we're a bit behind schedule.
OK.
Sure.
If there's any last quick questions people have, or we
'll move on.
OK.
So we'll move to Billy, the last talk.
And thanks again, Francisco.
You're welcome.
Thank you.